>> Todd Gardner: So
first we're gonna do some image resizing.
Now, image resizing there's
lots of ways to do this.
Some people like to do this
in their original source and
just upload compressed images.
Other people do it like in their CDNs.
Some CDNs, including Buddy CDN,
actually has the option that it'll live
compressed images based on
query string stuff like that.
But for the example purpose here, I built
some build tools that automatically
compress images and they're sitting
here inside the tools directory.
And so what we're gonna do is we're
gonna run these things in order, and
all the details inside of here
don't really matter so much.
Like they're here for your reference, you
can go ahead and look If you wanna build
an image optimizer or image resizer or
whatever, go ahead and feel free to take
this code and run with it as your base,
but it's not very sophisticated.
What this is, is this is a PNG resizer,
all of the images on the store
are PNGs just for simplicity, and
this uses a tool called Jimp I
think that's how they pronounce it.
I don't actually know how they pronounce
Jimp, but J-I-M-P to basically create
copies of all of the images and make
a copy of them in a directory called R.
And we are gonna make a 360, 720,1024,
1400 and 2800 pixel wide version
of a every single image.
And we're gonna do that first.
So npm run image png-resizer.
This takes just a few seconds because
there's a lot of images to generate
because I'm generating five copies
of every image at different sizes.
And honestly,
the code's not super optimized cuz
that makes it hard to write and read.
There we go so
if we now look in public assets image R,
R for responsive there's
a whole bunch of images.
Every single image that was in our image
directory, call out one, two, three,
stickers, logo, hero, whatever,
there are now several copies of it.
So I have,
the original of callouts was 1,024 wide,
which is about 1.5 makes for this,
this image of this dopey looking AI
guy with stickers on his laptop.
But we could ship a smaller image at 720,
that's only 800 K and
a smaller one yet
that's only 250 K at 360.
So right there, we've already have some
potential savings where we're shipping
much smaller images across the wire.
Even though all we've
done is make size copies,
we've just done simple resizing
operations to ship it.
Now we'd need to actually make
some changes in HTML to use these.
We'll do that here in a second, but
I think we should do
a few more optimizations.
So the next thing is I have this p and
g optimizer using a tool called Imagemin,
which is just a widely
available package online.
And all this is gonna do,
this is largely what tiny P and G does.
We are just gonna run all of
the images through this optimizer and
generate a copy of them in the Min Direct.
Where we have like done a little
bit of like optimization and
removing extra plates down
the colors a little bit, but
largely you can't tell
the difference visually.
So we are gonna run image PNG, optimize.
>> Todd Gardner: Great so
now, for comparison's sake,
let's look at callout 1-1024,
which was 1.5MBs.
If we look in the min directory,
callout-1-1024
is a third of the size at 470 kilobytes.
Let's look at these side by side.
So I'm gonna open this is callout
1-1024 in the min directory.
Call out 1-1024,
not let's look at these side by side.
>> Todd Gardner: Can you
tell the difference?
>> Todd Gardner: I can't they look
identical to me, but the one on the left
is a third of the size of the one
on the right through optimization.
And so we've now created an incredibly
small copy of all of our images.
And in the case where we can
ship a small one, the downsized,
the 360 wide version
optimized is now only 74K.
That's way smaller than that 1.1
megabytes that we were shipping before.
But there's one more thing that we can do.
So I showed you before on how much
smaller WebPs are than PNGs and JPEGs.
Well, the third optimization that I have
written here, which also uses imagemin,
is we are gonna convert all of
the the PNGs in the min directory.
We're gonna create a copy of
them in the webP directory and
we are gonna convert them to webPs.
So this is our third kind of step here.
Image PNG to webP.
So now, let's go back for comparison.
So we have in min callout1-1024.
That was the one we've been looking at.
So now if we look at the WebP directory,
callout 1-1024
dot WebP is 69 kilobytes,
not 470 kilobytes.
Can you tell the difference?
>> Todd Gardner: No,
they're identical visually identical.
But through the course
of these three changes,
we've taken a 1.5 megabyte image and
gotten it down to 70K.
Without stripping any quality like we
can ship the same high quality image for
retina displays for big displays.
At a fraction of the size.
That's huge and all we did was
run it through these optimizers.
Now I'm just putting them straight into
code because that's how my system works.
I'm gonna deploy it this way.
So we can do it this way you
might have a build process
that you could automatically generate
these files as part of your build.
Just automatically running it through
compressors, doing replacement in HTML,
stuff like that.
Huge performance benefits for you to gain.
Now we need to reference these and
so how are we going to do that?
Well, we're going to
use a little replacer,
because I like copy paste replacements.
They're fun we're actually,
we're just gonna do this on,
no, let's go ahead and
do it on everything.
Everything in the public directory,
we're gonna look for
a
>> Todd Gardner: A regular
expression matcher,
>> Todd Gardner: This is fun if you guys
aren't familiar with like how to do these
sort of replacements in VS code it's
a huge productivity win.
We're gonna look, we turned on
this regular expression match and
we're gonna look for
the string/asset/image/anything.PNG.
But we put parentheses so that we
can group the name of the files and
here's all of the things that we found.
We found all of these files in public.
We found some of them in HTML,
I think there
are some in JavaScript
here somewhere maybe not.
Anyway, we found all of these things here.
So we're gonna replace that, and
we're gonna reference our new webP.
>> Todd Gardner: So the replacement is
we're gonna change all of those paths to
use /assets/image/our new webP directory,
and
then use $1 to use whatever
your grouping variable is.
And so essentially,
we've changed where it would reference
assets image devstickers logo to assets.
Image webP devstickers.webP.
Boom huge performance
wins across the board.
Let's look at one of these
examples here in index.
We've just changed well,
those are our preloads
we've changed all of our
references to use this new one.
Let's just do a quick spot
check here NPM start.
If I look at our site,
everything should visually still look
all the images are still there great,
perfect.
Now, we need to,
for a responsive, we need to change
how we're referencing that image.
And so specifically,
we care about that LCP image.
We could theoretically do this
to all of the images, but
the most important one right now is that
LCP image so that's what I wanna fix.
Now, there's a lot of typing involved
there that is air prone to typos.
So I'm gonna just grab this thing out of
my samples, which is right here cool.
>> Todd Gardner: So here where we have
our two images, right now, we just had,
we had, we referenced printing hero
desktop WebP and hero mobile WebP.
And I was using some bespoke JavaScript or
some bespoke CSS on desktop and mobile
class names to like toggle which one we
show which we don't have to do anymore.
So we can get rid of this entirely.
And in fact, we'll get rid of the div
illustration, and we'll just use
the picture element for that purpose
now it's picture class illustration.
Well, maybe I shouldn't have done that,
>> Todd Gardner: Let's
do it side by side,
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah, that's better.
>> Todd Gardner: Great so
here's the sample so
what we wanna do here is I wanna
reference the hero desktop app, or
the Hero desktop WebP,
wherever I'm doing this.
I'm gonna go ahead and
leave these query strings on no, I'm not.
We'll just replace it like that.
>> Todd Gardner: We also created
responsive versions of all of our images.
So if we look in /image/webP,
you'll see that there's-
the width at the end of all of the names,
just for consistency.
So I can do- 2800- 1400
is what I actually use so
we should change that
and- 720 dash webP cool.
The default will continue to just be,
hey, the biggest one.
Fetch priority high,
height, width, cool, 721.
Let's do the mobile version
we'll take hero mobile,
which at 360 would be- 360.
>> Todd Gardner: -720
>> Todd Gardner: And- 1400, which
probably won't ever get used 'cause of
the style rule, but it's in there so yeah.
>> Todd Gardner: Now one thing
optimization that we made here is that
we're instructing the browser to only
download the image that it needs.
And we're doing it with
fetch priority high.
Now, unfortunately, this undoes one of the
other optimizations that we did earlier.
We added these preloads to pull these
two images down, which is great.
When you know you need that image, but
now I don't know which image I need.
I don't know which one until I
know the size of the screen.
And you don't know the size
of the screen at this point.
So these are, unfortunately,
no longer going to help us, and
we need to remove them,
because otherwise we're gonna download two
images that we don't necessarily need.
We don't know what image
we need until we get there.
So now, we're gonna rely on fetch
priority high which is still good, but
does not have Firefox support.
Board of made it still as
as good as we can make it.
All right, so I have all this stuff here.
We have changes all over the place so
we need to commit this.
So let's optimized and responsive
images okay, now, [LAUGH] Whew.
>> Todd Gardner: It'll be
a bigger
trouble,
>> Todd Gardner: Okay, now, if we go to
our CDN version of this and we reload it.
Yeah, that's a lot better let's open
up dev tools and run the full check.
>> Todd Gardner: Look at that it came
back at five seconds.
We're way closer all right,
check this out.
So, now, all the metrics are on
the initial screen, check this out.
LCP is now at 454 milliseconds.
So we still have all of these
things happening right away.
Now, one file that we're downloading
the LCP image is this hero mobile fort
1400 we're downloading a 1400
wide version of this image, and
we're doing it because this is
reflecting a retina display.
So the width is always going
to be multiplied by two.
So cuz it's going to try and
do a double density image to try and
look good on iOS devices.
And so the width that it calculates
is always twice as big for retinas.
So it's downloading the 1400 but look how
fast, just by setting fetch priority high,
cuz we removed the preload attribute,
cuz it wasn't going to work anymore.
So just by setting fetch priority high,
we're way here at the beginning,
it's downloading really fast.
And the total download time for this,
is only 161 milliseconds,
which is super fast.
Like this is downloading and
FCP and LCP are not far out at all.
Like, we're really doing things as fast as
the browser is capable of doing them at
this point.
And everything should be in the green.
There was a question about how do we
talk about optimizing SVG images.
Now, SVG images are a bit of a different
animal that I don't have a whole lot
of content on to go into, and they're
a different animal because it's a vector.
It's not describing like here's
what every pixel looks like.
It's describing lines and shapes and
that sort of thing, which is great for
drawings, like a lot of logos will
use this very simple drawings.
And the great thing about an SVG is it
lets you scale the size from very small to
very big.
And there's not really a resolution of it.
It's just the same thing,
regardless of the size.
Now, in terms of like,
how do you optimize that,
being that the internals is just XML,
describing those lines and shapes.
There's not an image compression thing, so
they'll be natively compressed by the HTTP
compression protocols that we use.
So broccoli and
G IP will automatically compress
those SVG files really, really well.
Now, if you wanna do more than that,
the best tool that I found for
optimizing SVGs is this free
tool online called SVGOMG.
Which is this little thing where
you can paste an SVG into and
it's a bunch of options of
like rounding off numbers and
removing transparent panels and
stuff like.
That it requires a little bit of fiddling
to make sure you're resulting SVG
is the same thing as your input SVG.
But I have gotten results where I've
crunched the size of an SVG in half.
Generally SVGs are not the problem here.
SVGs are rarely more than a couple of K.
They're not like this core big thing
like PNG's that slow down your page.
If you have an SVG that's
more than a couple of K,
chances are somebody embedded
a PNG inside of the SVG.
They thought I'm just gonna
convert my PNG's to SVG's.
And they did an export, not realizing that
it just takes the entirety of the PNG and,
wraps it in a byte stream inside of XML.
It doesn't actually do anything.
So that's not really an SVG in my mind
that's just obfuscating the problem.
But I hope that addresses the question.
>> Speaker 2: Wouldn't it be preferable if
you do have animation Illustrations and
logos and stuff like that to
use SVGs because they're so
much smaller than images for
the most part.
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah if your source,
if your original source is an SVG,
like is a vector, if something if
somebody made something in illustrator,
keep it as a vector, don't convert it to
a PNG, don't convert it to like bits.
If it's a drawing, use it as SVG,
use it as a drawing,
it will almost always be smaller and
just way easier to deal with.
>> Speaker 2: And
I would assume look better too and
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah,
you'll be able to scale it up to way
bigger sizes and stuff like that but
if it's not if your original source isn't
a vector, you're never gonna get it
there it's not I have a an illustration
that's a PNG I can't convert it.
There's no way that I am aware of to
convert a PNG into an SVG that doesn't
just embed the SVG bits inside of an XML
document which doesn't really do anything.
So that was our we deployed it, and we
talked about it, and it was huge results.
Where are we at super fast at this point,
super fast at 454 milliseconds
to LCP through through these optimizations
that we've been able to add.
So that was our tactics for LCP.
We've made LCP really, as fast as this
website probably can ever get LCP without
fundamentally changing what it looks like.
We did a bunch more lazy loading,
getting the images that we don't
need in the scripts out of the way.
We eager loaded, pulled up, made the
priority of our LCP image a lot higher.
And we got huge benefits from optimizing
the images to crunch them as small
as we could.
So that was LCP.